### Usability: Recap

- Usability is a **quality measure** for a system.
- It is a dynamic, unpredictable process which requires understanding of
    - who the **users** are, and
    - their knowledge, **goals** and **tasks**.
- It is measured by different types of evaluation.

### Different sorts of Users and Tasks: Recap

A major problem is the variety of users:
- In knowledge and training (e.g. experienced, or novice)
- In goals (e.g. medical image workstation for radiologists making diagnoses, or sugeons planning surgery)
- In physical size and capability (e.g. pilot, or child)

### Analyzing Interaction Paradigms: Recap

- Interaction paradigm: A model or pattern of human-computer interaction that encompasses all aspects of interaction, including physical, virtual, perceptual, and cognitive
- An interaction paradigm defines the "who, what, where, when, why, and how" (5W+H) of computer system use.

### Activity Break: Recap

How does making a call differ when using a
- cell phone
- public phone box?

Write down for both:
##### 1. the kind of user
- public phones: designed to used by the general public

- Cell phones: intended for all user groups
    > although they can be difficult to use for people who are blind or ...

**2. type of activity being supported**
- Phone boxes: most are designed with a simple mode of interaction: insert card or money and key in the phone number.
    > - If engaged or unable to connect the money or card is returned when the receiver is replaced
    > - There is the option of allowing the caller to make a follow-on call by pressing a button rather than collecting the money and reinserting it again. This function enables the making multiple calls to be more efficient.

- Cell phones: have a more complex mode of interaction
    > - More functionality is provided, requiring the user to spend time learning how to use them. e.g. hotkeys

**3. context of use.**
- Phone boxes: intended to be used in public places (e.g. on the street or in a bus station)
    > have been designed to give the user a degree of privacy and noise protection through the use of hoods and booths

- Cell phones: have been designed to be used any place and any time.
    > Little consideration has been given to how such flexibility affects others who may be in the same public place

# Goals

### Core characteristics of interaction design

- Users should be involved through the whole development of the product 
    > 用户全程参与
- Specific usability and user experience **goals** need to be indentified, clearly documented and agreed at the beginning of the project 
    > 项目开发的起始阶段，就需要将goals明确
- **Iteration** is needed throughout the core activities 
    > 开发过程一定是迭代式的，事前思考是为了寻找最优迭代起始点。

### What is involved in the process of interaction design?

1. Identify needs and establish requirements
2. Develop alternative designs
3. Build interactive prototypes that can be communicated and assessed
4. Evaluate what is being built throughout the process

### Goals of Interaction Design: Recap

- Allow users to carry out tasks safely, effectively, efficiently, and enjoyably.
    > safely, effectively, efficiently可度量，纳入可用性指标，而enjoyably不可度量，纳入到用户体验指标中。但现在也可以通过测量生理指标来测量，模糊了可用性与用户体验的界限。

## Usability Goals

- Effective to use (effectiveness)
- Efficient to use (efficiency)
- Safe to use (safety)
- Have a good utility (utility)
- Easy to learn (learnability)
- Easy to remember how to use (memorability)

#### Effective to use (effectiveness)

- a very general goal
- how well does the system do its job
- Q: Is the system capable of allowing people to
    - learn well,
    - carry out their work efficiently,
    - access the information they need,
    - buy the goods they want,
    - ...
> Effectiveness中最重要需要关注的两方面: Accuracy&Completeness

#### Efficient to use (efficiency)

- the way a system supports user in carrying out their tasks
- an example of efficiency mechanism: e-tailing
- Amazon.com: one-click option
- Laptop's power system
- Q: Once users have learned how to use a system to carry out their tasks, can they sustain a high level of productivity?

#### Safe to use (safety)

- protecting the user from dangerous conditions and undesirable situations
- e.g. x-ray machine: remote control
    - computer: 1) prevent users pressing wrong buttons (save/copy/quit/delete)
    - computer: 2) recovery? **Recycle-bin**
- Q: Does the system prevent users from making serious errors and, if they do make an error, does it permit them to recover easily? **Recycle-bin**

#### Have a good utility (utility)

- does it provide the right kind of function?
- E.g.

#### Easy to learn (learnability)
> **Nelson's ten-minute rule** 

- how easy a system is to learn to use
    > People want to get started straight away and become ...
- Key concern:determining how much time users are prepared to spend learning a system
- Q: How easy is it and how long does it take

#### Easy to remember how to use (memorability)

- how eay a system is to remember how to use, once learned.
    - especially for those used only infrequently
    - Use meaning icons, command names, and menu options
    - Structing options and icons so they are placed in relevant categories of options.
    > 最好的情况：不需要记忆，利用图标和菜单文字等识别
- Q: What kinds of interface support have been provided to help users remember how to carry out tasks, especially for systems and operations that are used infrequently?
> **Augmented Reality**

### User Experience Goals
> 几乎都很难量化

- Satisfying
- Enjoyable
- Fun
- Entertatining
- Helpful
- Motivating
- Rewarding
- Compelling -- which may mean it is not necessarily easy to learn. In

### Usability Goals vs User Experience Goals

- Usability goals are central to interaction design and are operationalized through specific criteria.
- User experience goals

### Class Discussion - Usability
