# Unit 3 Identifying needs and establishing requirements

### Overview

- The importance of requirements
- Different types of requirements
- Data gathering, interpretation and analysis
    > 如何达到用户需求
- Task descriptions:
    - Scenarios
    - Use Cases
    - Essential use cases
- Task analysis: HTA

## Requirements

### What, how and why?

#### What are we trying to achieve in this design activity?

Two aims:
- **Identifying needs**: Understand as much as possible about the users, their work, and the context of that work, so that the system under development can support them in acchieing their goals.
    > 关键词：user, task = their work, situation = context
- **Establishing requirements**
    - Produce a ++stable++ set of requirements that form a sound basis to move forward into thinking about design.
        > requirements是不应该变化的，user needs可以变化

    - Not necessarily a major document nor a set of rigid prescriptions, but you need to be sure that it will not change radically in the time it takes to do some design and get feedback on the ideas.

#### How can we achieve this?

- **Beginning**: we know that we have a lot to find out and to clarify.
- **Middle**?
    - Data gathering activities
    - Data analysis activities
    - Expression as "requirements"
        - capturing the finding in a form that can be expressed as requirement
    > 采集数据，分析数据，表达为需求；HCI课程不讨论分析步骤
- **End**: have a set of stable requirements.

The requirements activity is **iterative**。
- the activities progress in a sequential manner. (broadly speaking)
- the subactivities inform and refine one another.
- Does not last for a set number of weeks or months and then finish.
- requirements evolve and develop as the **stakeholders** interact with designs and see what is possible and how certain facilities can help them. (in practice)
    > **stakeholders** 利益相关方 =》user

#### Why bother?

- **Requirements definition**: the stage where failure occurs most commonly
    - causes of failure: unclear objectives and requirements
    - critical success factors: clear, detailed requirements
        > 当产品失败时，通常会归因到用户需求；产品成功时，往往也会归因到用户需求
- Getting requirements right is ++crucial++
    - What if the requirements are wrong?
        - Ans: at best, be ignored; at worst; be despised.
    - UCD is one solution.
        - hear the user's voices and needs clearly and take them into account.
        > 听用户的需求，相应用户的需求并认真考虑。

### Establishing requirements

- Requirements need clarification, refinement, completion, re-scoping various labels
    - requirements gathering & requirements capturing (exist out there -> pick up)
        > 有人使用这样的术语，但这样的表述似乎需求就存在那里，只需要拿来，有些过于淡化了需求捕获分析的难度

    - requirements elicitation (导出) (others know -> ask)
    - requirements analysis (activity of investigating and analyzing an initial set of requirements that have been gathered, elicited, or captured.)
    - requirements engineering (iterative process of evolution and negotiation)
        > 需求工程是一个很好的术语，但谈到工程往往工作量较大，需要较好的机构企业才能够将需求当作工程来做
        
- Why "establish"?
    - arise from understanding users' needs
    - can be justified by & related back to the data collected.

### What are requirements?

- A requirement is a statement about an intended product that specifies what it should do or how it should perform.
    > 需求必须是陈述句
- Should be specific, unambiguous, and clear.
    > 满足三个要求：具体，只有一种解读方式，清楚

    - E.g. time to download any complete page is less than 5 seconds.
        > 符合定义下的requirements
        
    - E.g. Teenage girls should find the site appealing.
        > 是user needs，仍需要转述为requirements=》重要的一步

### Requirements in Software Engineering
- Functional:
    - What the system should do
    - Word processor: should support a variety of formatting styles.
- Non-functional:
    - What constraints there are on the system and its development
    - Must be able to run on a variety of platforms 
    - Function on a computer with 1GB Ram.
    - Must be delivered in six months' time.

### Different kinds of requirements

#### Functional requirements

- What the product should do
    > E.g. smart fridge
- Understanding the functional requirements for an interactive product is crucial.
- Historically the main focus of requirements activities
> 功能需求一定是基础，是最重要的。默认大家都清楚重要性，所以不重点讨论。

#### Data requirements

- Capture the type, size/amount, persistence, accuracy, and value of the amounts of the required data.
- What kinds of data need to be stored?
- How will they be stored?
    > 为什么要讨论数据类型：如整型浮点型保存处理的难度相差很大
- Share-dealing: up-to-date and accurate, likely to change many times a day.
- Personal banking: accurate, persist over many months and probably years, very valuable, ...

#### Environmental requirements or context of use
> 可能是最复杂的需求

- refer to the circumstances in which the interactive product will be expected to operate.
- **Physical environment**
    - How much lighting, noise, and dust is expected?
    - Will users need to wear protective clothing?
    - How crowded?
    - Might affect the choice of interaction paradigm (e.g. ATM in very public physical environment, speech?)
- **Social environment**
    - collaboration and coordination 
    - sharing of files, of displays, (Synchronous vs.asynchronous) 
    - across great distances 
    - work individually 
    - privacy for clients
- **Organisational environment**
    - hierarchical management
    - IT department's attitude and remit (宽恕，免除，缓和，汇出，传送)
    - user support -- good? Easily obtained? 
    - communications infrastructure -- stable? 
    - availability of training
- **Technical environment**
    - What technologies will the product run on and need to be compatible with
    - What technological limitations might be relevant?

#### User requirements

- User requirements: capture the characteristics of the intended user group.
- Users: Who are they?
    - Characteristics: ability, background, attitude to computers 
    - System use: novice, expert, casual, frequent 
    - Novice: step-by-step (prompted), constrained, clear information
    - Expert: flexibility, access/power 
    - Frequent: short cuts
    - Casual/Infrequent: clear Instructions, e.g. menu paths
    - The collection of attributes for a 'typical user' is called a **user profile**. Any one device may have a number of different user profiles.

#### Usability requirements

- capture usability goals and associate measures for a particular product.
- learnability, throughput(生产量), flexibility, attitude
- Related to other kinds of requirement we must establish, such as the kinds of users expected to interact with the product.

> effectiveness, efficiency, safety, utility learnability, memorability

### Summary: Different Kinds of Requirements

- Functional requirements
- Data requirements 
- Environmental requirements 
    - Physical requirements 
    - Social requirements 
    - Organizational requirements 
    - Technical requirements 
- User requirements 
- Usability requirements

### Kinds of requirements

What factors (environmental, user, usability) would affect the following systems?
- Self-service filling and payment system for a petrol (gas) station
- On-board ship data analysis system for geologists searching for oil
- Fashion clothes website

### Class activity

Suggest one key **functional, data, environmental, user and usability requirement** for each of the following scenarios:
- A system for use in a university's self-service cafeteria that allows users to pay for their food using a credit system
- A system to control the functioning of a nuclear power plant
- A system to support distributed design teams, e.g. for car design
