### Overview

- Prototying and construction
- Conceptual design
- Physical design

## Prototyping and construction

- What is a prototype?
- Why prototype?
- Different kinds of prototyping
    - low fidelity
    - high fidelity
- Compromises in prototyping
    - vertical
    - horizontal
- Construction

#### What is a prototype?
> 原型、样机

In other design fields a prototype is a small-scale model:
- a miniature car
- a miniature building or town

In interaction design it can be (among other things):
- a series of screen sketches
- a storyboard, i.e. a cartoon-like series of scenes
- a Powerpoint slide show
- a video simulating the use of a system
- a lump of wood (e.g. PalmPilot)
- a cardboard mock-up
- a piece of software with limited
    - functionality written in the target
    - language or in another language

#### Why prototype?
> 设计迭代的需要

- Evaluation and feedback are central to interaction design
- Stakeholders can see, hold, interact with a prototype more easily than a document or a drawing
- Team members can communicate effectively
- You can test out ideas for yourself
- It encourages reflection (careful consideration): very improtant aspect of design
- **Prototypes answer questions, and support designers in choosing between alternatives**

#### What to prototype?

- Technical issues
- Work flow, task design
- Screen layouts and information display
- Difficult, controversial, critical areas
    > 处理各方有争议的问题

#### Different kinds of prototyping

##### Low-fidelity Prototyping

- Uses a medium which is unlike the final medium, e.g. paper, cardboard
- Is quick, cheap and easily changed
- Examples:
    - sketches of screens, task sequences, etc
    - 'Post-it' notes
    - storyboards
    - 'Wizard-of-Oz'
- **Storyboards**
    - Often used with scenarios, bringing more detail, and a chance to role play
    - It is a series of sketches showing how a user might progress through a task using the device
    - Used early in design
- **Sketching**
    - Sketching is important to low-fidelity prototyping
    - Don't be inhibited about drawing ability. Practice simple symbols
- **Using index cards**
    - Index cards (3 * 5 inches)
    - Each card represents one screen
    - Often used in website development

##### High-fidelity prototyping

- Uses materials that you would expect to be in the final product
- Prototype looks more like the final system than a low-fidelity version
- For a high-fidelity software prototype common environments include Macromedia Director, Visual Basic, and Smalltalk
- Danger that users think they have a full system ..... see compromises
> 原型越是高保真，越有让用户以为这就是成品的风险。通常要保留一些显而易见的破绽来提醒用户这仅仅是原型，并非越真越好

#### Difference between prototype and model

- Basically a prototype is full size and functional, a model is ususally of a scale size and does not necessarily function.
- A prototype is the first full size or 'pilot' model of a device or process. Sometimes the term is used to mean the first complete item of what subsequently becomes a production series.

A model is any arrangement of parts that demonstrates the way they work together. Scale is arbitrary.

#### Compromises in prototyping

- All prototypes involve compromises
- For software-based prototyping maybe there is a slow response? sketchy icons? limited functionality?
- Two common types of compromise
    - '**horizontal**': provide a wide range of functions, but with little detail
    - '**vertical**': provide a lot of detail for only a few functions
- Compromises in prototypes mustn't be ignored. Product needs engineering
> 设计与工程之间有巨大的成本差距，原型需要作出妥协，通常可选择 功能全面但不深入 或 仅深入几个功能而不提供其他功能 两种妥协方式

##### Prototyping cultures

- The culture of an organization has a strong influence on the quality of the innovations that the organization can products
- Primarily two kinds of organizational culture for innovation: specification culture and prototyping culture.
- Specification culture: new products and development are driven by written specifications
- Prototyping culture: understanding requirements and developing the new product are driven by prototyping
- Organizations wanting to be innovative need to move to a prototyping-driven culture.
> 组织文化分为 Specification culture 和 Prototyping culture 作者认为 Prototyping culture 有利于创新，但并不一定如此

#### Construction: form design to implementation

- Taking the prototypes (or learning from them) and creating a whole
- Quality must be attended to: usability (of course), reliability, robustness, maintainability, integrity, portability, efficiency, etc
- Product must be engineered
    > 想做出产品，必须工程化，有两种原型迭代方式

    - Evolutionary prototyping
        > 在上一个基础上改，如 A->A'->A''
    
    - 'Throw-away' prototyping
        > 将上一个丢弃，重新做一个，如 A->B->C
    
    > 二者没有明确区分，可能 Evolutionary prototyping 的 A 改到 A'' 时其实已经变成B了

## Conceptual design

#### Conceptual design: from requirements to design

- Transform user requirements/needs into a conceptual model
- "a description of the proposed system in terms of a set of integrated ideas and concepts about what it should do, behave and look like, that will be understandable by the users in the manner intended"
- Don't move to a solution too quickly. Iterate, iterate, iterate
- Consider alternatives: prototyping helps

#### Three perspectives for a conceptual model

- Which interaction mode?
    - How the user invokes actions 用户会如何操作
    - Activity-based: instructing, conversing, manipulating and navigating, exploring and browsing.
    - Object-based: structured around real=world objects

#### Conceptual models: from interaction mode to style: Recap

- **Interaction mode**:
    - what the user is doing when interacting with a system, e.g. instructing, talking, browsing or other
- **Interaction style**:
    - the kind of interface used to support the mode, e.g. speech, menu-based, gesture

#### Is there a suitable metaphor?

- Interface metaphors combine familiar knowledge with new knowledge in a way that will help the user understand the product.
    > "teaching software" -- classroom
- Three steps: understand functionality, identify potential problem areas, generate metaphors
- Evaluate metaphors:
    - How much structure does it provide?
    - How much is relevant to the problem?
    - Is it easy to represent?
    - Will the audience understand it?
    - How extensible is it?

#### Expanding the conceptual model

- What functions will the product perform?
    - What will the product do and what will the human do (task allocation)?
- How are the functions related to each other?
    - sequential or parallel?
    - categorisations, e.g. all actions related to telephone memory storage
- What information needs to be available?
    - What data is required to perform the task?
    - How is this data to be transformed by the system?

#### Using scenarios in conceptual design
> scenarios 是用户对自己需求非正规的断续的描述，需要被整理出来变成结构化的需求

- Express proposed or imagined situations
- Used throughout design in various ways
    - scripts for user evaluation of prototypes
    - concrete examples of tasks
    - as a means of co-operation across professional boundaries
- Plus and minus scenarios to explore extreme cases
    > plus scenarios 通常是非常幸运一切都很顺利的情况下，而 minus scenarios 是每步都遇到困难的情景。

### Class activity

Consider an in-car navigation device for planning routes, and suggest one plus and one minus scenario.

#### Using prototypes in conceptual design

- Allow evaluation of emerging ideas
- Low-fidelity prototypes used early on, high-fidelity prototype used later

## Physical design

#### Physical design: getting concrete

- Considers more concrete, detailed issues of designing the interface
- Iteration between physical and conceptual design
    > physical design 和 conceptual design之间存在迭代
- Guidelines for physical design
    - Nielsen's heuristics (2001)
    - Sheneiderman's eight golden rules (1998)
        - Strive for consistency
        - Enable frequent users to use shortcuts
        - Offer informative feedback
        - Design dialogs to yield closure
        - Offer error prevention and simple error handling
        - Permit easy reversal of actions
        - Support internal locus of control
        - Reduce short-term memory load
- Different kinds of widget (dialog boxes, toolbars, icons, menus etc)
    - menu design
    - icon design
    - screen design
    - information display

## Summary

- Different kinds of prototyping are used for different purposes and at different stages
    > 不同的原型有不同的用途
- Prototypes answer questions, so prototype appropriately
    > 原型是用于回答问题的——四个问题
- Construction: the final product must be engineered appropriately
    > 最终产品是需要工程的，原型与产品之间有距离
- Conceptual design (the first step of design)
- Physical design: e.g. menus, icons, screen design, information display
- Prototypes and scenarios are used throughout design
